[Music]
hey everybody how you feeling I want to
do something a little bit different
today with the co focused audience I
know a few folks know sasra content
thank you if you do a lot of it's very
prescriptive basically a lot of it's
like in the old days was like here's
what I screwed up here's what I wish I'd
done here's what someone else did better
this even today with all the stuff we do
it's very prescriptive but there's so
much change the last 3 years that I
wanted to summarize all the things I'm
thinking about that have changed and not
all of it I have amazing ideas what to
do about it but at least I can share
things that maybe we can all get on the
same page together maybe some of it's
cathartic or some of because I really
think we are in a new world as managers
As Leaders I think that 2020 was nuts
right at first it seemed like the world
would end for all of us we'd all be
bankrupt that lasted about 7 weeks and
all of a sudden the world exploded the
backup of 2020 was great 2021 comes in
and somehow we have 600 unicorns and
everyone can burn 500 million a year or
have huge sales teams and 2021 great and
then at the end of 2021 all of a sudden
the music stopped and at the very end of
2021 Hashi Corp went public and it was
great and then it stopped there were no
IPOs there were no IPOs from December
2021 until clayo a couple months ago and
even claville which is one of my
favorite SAS companies read about it on
SAS if you haven't it's coming up on
aill there's nothing wrong with this
company it's still barely ipoed at 800
million in Revenue so it's it was a
tough time then 2022 was crazy right
because we it was like a knife was
falling and everything fell off a cliff
so much faster than we thought and
everyone was in a reactive mode and then
20123 was a word world because everyone
got efficient everyone got efficient
everyone raised prices even though they
didn't often usually didn't earn it they
jammed price increases down customers
throats everyone cut the burn but maybe
they didn't grow there were a lot of
companies that cut the burn and didn't
grow and we went into this preservation
mode and now we're coming to 2024 and
one we have to grow again as Founders
which is tough in many cases but I think
an even bigger deal is I think our teams
have not caught up I think as humans
it's been too much weet flash I don't
think most folks have caught up I don't
think most marketers or sales folks or
customer success leaders have caught up
to this world that's too much change
each of the last three years has been
too different and I don't know that
we're all going to make it to the next
phase so I wanted to digest in some ways
we may have to start over again we may
have to start over again in this new
world with new energy and New
Perspectives cuz for some of us we may
not make it through the fourth year of
radical change it's so much even good
change is a lot for folks to process so
I thought i' dig into my learnings and
hopefully some of them are helpful the
first one it took me a little while to
figure this out what does all this
efficiency mean what does it all mean
and I realized a couple months ago and I
just wrote this up on saster that I have
about three Investments three to four
Investments I made in 2013 2014 2015
that are now 200 million Revenue so
that's pretty good right from my when I
started investing I only done like 30
Investments I started in
2013 and the first one was pipe Drive
they're not quite there but they're
close they sold for a billion and a half
then Al goolia then toest then sales
Loft and a few others and I've got over
three maybe four that are at 200 million
in revenue and if we looked at what they
would have looked like in 2020 we have
seen all over the place 2,000 employees
5,000 employees burning 10 million a
month profit like they would have been
very diverse turns out in 24 they're all
these three and a half companies they're
all exactly the same they're all break
even and they'll have 700 employees
break even and all of them and they're
all in this Zone they're not running out
of money they're all planning to try to
go public and things but and so I
thought about this folks are still
confused why can't I have 200 reps why
can't I have 50 sdrs feeding ades
feeding 50 people on my marketing team
feeding 80 people in my CS team it's not
fair to me I need a team everyone needs
a team even in 2024 so be it but but
back into this number okay this is a way
to think about efficiency in a very
specific way you've got when you get to
200 million in Revenue you can have 700
people okay and you can do the back
that's approaching 300K per employee if
you look at the average public SAS
company they're the most efficient
they've ever been in the history of SAS
the average public SAS company is now
above 300 M 300,000 per employee okay
but what does that mean before your
public because it's hard for us
sometimes to internalize public 700 to
200 million
so at 100 million AR what does that mean
you could have 350 on average maybe 400
maybe a little bit more if you're well
funded but we had plenty of folks with
a, 2,000 employees at 100 million
Revenue with Venture Capital we had
folks with hundreds and hundreds of
employees at 10 million in AR at 15
million in AR and it just doesn't work
folks it just doesn't work so when
you're planning I found somehow this was
helpful when I shared it with Founders
okay this is your like forget about how
you get there bootstrap left strap right
strapped overfunded underfunded it all
normalizes itself over time because at
some point your business has to pay for
your this is how many you can fit then
how many can you afford to get there and
we got bloated we all got bloated we all
thought we could have so many more
people than we can but you can't change
physics this is the number you skate to
so just a thought and 300 to 30 million
a just isn't going to work anymore
that's what we all saw in 2021 everyone
had 300 400 employees at 30 million
revenue and we all got used to team
sizes and met metcs and OTS and
everything around that just we will
probably never see this again outside of
a few outliers in our lifetime and
that's why even great companies like bra
just announced they had to lay off 20%
at 250 300 million Revenue why this they
had to get back to normal math it's not
a bad it's a great company but this math
has to work so this is something that
maybe for your teams and yourself you
can help back into this
300,000
all up and down from the bottom to the
top I interviewed over 50 VPS of sales
last year both fororo companies and
myself 40 of them were not willing to do
sales themselves anymore for only 10 of
them were
willing
lived in Pleasanton very highly
respected highly regarded sales
professional I asked him I said listen I
strongly believe that in 2024 you have
to visit your customers especially with
distributed teams the more distributed
you are the more important thing and I
said are you willing to visit customers
I am willing to visit customers but Palo
Alto and San Francisco are too far I'm
only willing to visit customers in eBay
you laugh this is someone highly
respected and what happened how could
someone highly respected say that burn
out after four years burn out of up
quotas down quotas and I get that people
are burnt out I talked a couple months
ago to an AE that made over $400,000
last year just quit with no job burn out
again and again I continue so many new
stories and I have empathy but I don't
have sympathy or maybe I have sympathy
and not empathy I'm not sure which one I
have here's what I've decided after
interviewing so 505050 sales again
everyone needs a team of 10 every person
with one year of experience needed a
team of 10 in
2021 I don't think they're going to work
a lot of these people will work again
but it lasted too long I think three
years of this yo-yo up and down ding
binging purging whatever Behavior a lot
of folks went through I think it's too
many years for folks to go back and I
know this is hard to say I don't think
we can hire these people 40 of those 42
of those 50 D piece of sales I
recommended to the founders or myself
tonight hired them they're not willing
to sell anymore is sales hard we all
know sales is hard but if after 3 years
of ups and downs you're not willing to
do it your old B boss was mean to your
quotas were too hard it wasn't fair you
got dealt a bad hand you weren't given
enough budget whatever at some point it
breaks people and I think we have a Lost
Generation of folks that are broken that
all want to just be managers all wanted
to just watch dashboards and I know it's
tough It's almost toxic to say it but
I'm giving up on these people I'm giving
up on these people and any and I'm
Giving Up on CS folks that won't talk to
customers anymore I interviewed almost
40 CS people last year the majority of
them are not willing to talk to
customers anymore not one I got this
email last week cuz SAS itself we need
like a head of sponsors customer success
I got this email from this great person
and she was I've been following saster
for 10 years I know exactly what you
need here's you have 200 sponsors you
have this here's what you need I said
great that's terrific you do you realize
you'll actually have to meet with folks
and do work and she just responded back
that's not me not me she's I have a
Playbook and I just want to run my
playbook so I can't do one more
interview like this I can't do I think
we have a Lost Generation and I don't
know the answer other than what I can
tell you is if we're Builders here if
your folks are building companies I
think this is stuff to say I think 90%
of the candidates out there you just
have to rule out because they're done
they're burnt they're broken they're
tired and they just won't work and don't
be suckered in by that great LinkedIn
that great experience there's so many
veterans now we've had so many years of
so many great billion dollar a countryes
so many people to hire don't hire the
broken
we got to get back to only hiring the
Pirates and the romantics only the
people that are quirky enough to want to
do the crap we do doesn't make sense
okay and the other thing that happened
as part of this is sometime around 2020
21 startups just became normal they
became very mainstream and some of it's
good like my commentator mainstream to F
for Founders but it became a very normal
job a 20 to 30 hour week job you did
from home and then you did your side
hustles and you watched your YouTubes
and you hit your quota and life was
great that just doesn't doesn't work
this is too hard it's too hard to get
people to buy another product no one on
planet Earth needs another SAS product
they don't every company out there all
of the Fortune 500 in the global 2000
they seem to work just fine with
whatever CRM or marketing automation or
ABM or whatever tool they work just fine
they don't need any change like the bar
is really high to get someone to change
and there's reasons and it's supposed to
be that hard it's not supposed to just
be a job it's it's definitely not
supposed to be a job you're tired of
doing and don't want to do anymore so I
don't know whether I have empathy or
sympathy or not empathy I got something
I do feel don't hire these people hire
another it's a Lost Generation and it's
tough and I have friends that are Lost
Generation it's tough a related point
that I think we're all going to struggle
with who are scaling is that sales
comp's confusing today sales comp's
confusing you can look at Eileen Lee's
latest data I think she said 60% of the
unicorns will fail okay and even the
ones that are going to survive half of
them their burn rate they can never burn
any more money they can never raise any
more money right so everyone's gotten
more efficient but they're not gone but
they're not gone open AI can pay
anything they want open AI for engineers
does tender offers every year where you
make millions of dollars a year from
working at open open a is doing now a
tender offer at 100 billion so you can
make $10 million a year and you got to
be great to work at open AI don't get me
wrong but you can make $10 million a
year as one of the best engine years
just through tender offers with not
going IPO I don't know exactly how they
pay their sales team but I think they
can pay
well okay I think they can pay well and
for every ex aorn or struggle corn or
whatever there's one that can pay those
outlier rates and it's going to continue
to warp how we think about sales comp
and sales compensation and it's going to
continue to just Ripple through the
industry there is a sales leader that
I've known for years that I used to work
with but he's never been to BP sales
never been a BP sales this is his shot
he got his shot and he went to interview
with a startup that last year went to 2
to 10 in one year okay pretty good
pretty good in general extra good good
last year right this company's basically
bootstrapped but it is generating cash
right so he went in and he said I want
an 800k OT plus I want a stretch bonus
plus I want to hire at least five people
at a 400 kot to
compete now maybe he'll get it now if
you think about if that company went
from 2 to 10 and can go from 10 to 40
maybe he'll get it at this bootstrap
maybe he'll get that maybe he'll
probably fail but maybe he'll get his 00
K it's really 400 400 he'll get his five
reps it outside he wants the best
everyone in 2021 paid High you had to
pay highend Market not only did you have
to pay highend of market for sales
talent but you had to decide today
because that s had 11 other offers and I
know there was no time for reference
checks and I know they failed the
interview but John's got 11 offers we
got to hire the SDR today and so
everyone got hired without reference
checks or without anything and we laugh
but there's going to be glimmers of that
with the outliers and the unicorns many
of the unicorns may be dead but Cloud
spend we may we'll hit this on other
side Cloud spend according to Gartner
Cloud software will be one trillion next
year it'll be a record growing double
digits so there's going to be big
Winners there's not going to be even a
hint of the number of winners we thought
we had 20 and they will continue to
distort a lot of our metrics they will
get marketing budgets that make no sense
for your companies they will get sales
teams and sizes that will distort it and
so what will happen is you're going to
talk to your teams you're going to say
guys we got to be lean we got to stay
lean
okay we're going to we everyone's got to
close bring in five times what they take
home and our marketing budget's going to
be really lean and everything's got to
be lean but someone's going to have a
friend at open AI or whatever AI startup
that just got a $20 million marketing
budget okay and they're going to spend
like drunken soldiers and they're going
to hire 50 marketers on their team and
they're going to get audience plus and
they're going to do everything and it's
all going to be great and they and those
are going to be great in many cases
unlike 2021 those are going to those are
truly great companies because there's a
trillion dollar of spend but they're
going to Warp everyone's way of thinking
and I think before 2020 it was already
happening in 2018 2019 but we were all
on the same Journey okay most of us were
on the same journey and then it went
crazy and now we're going to live in
this bifurcated world where there's
going to be Whispers of folks working at
decacorns and decacorns there'll be more
snowflakes and there'll be more apis and
it's going to put a lot of pressure on
the rest of us because people don't want
to go back they don't want to go back to
when they have to work hard in the hard
days and it's really to the prior point
I have the answer but it's going to
confuse folks folks are going to ask for
crazy numbers they're for crazy things
and I don't know it may take another
year and a half or two years to
normalize because there's still going to
be folks that get to play by different
rules right there's still going to be
folks get play by different rules okay
point four and this one may be slightly
triggering but I thought I think we the
generalist is dying in sass the
generalist is dying and I don't have
this is one I'm watching in process but
I see two things happening first of all
whether we like it or not everyone's
trying to use AI for a support right
whether this is really the greatest idea
to have a hallucinating bot answering my
questions we know this is a bad idea
okay we know this is a terrible idea but
and again this is the triggering part
generally in my
experience the quality of support and
customer success has Plum but it in sass
okay I just had a discussion with Nick
meta you can watch we did it but he
didn't totally challenge me I wrote a
SAS post of just these horrible
experiences I personally had in CS the
last year just folks not showing up to
meetings when there's bad news one where
we were spending $299 a month send us a
bill for $50,000 for 4 years prepaid
without talking to us and saying they
would shut our service off that day from
the Cs team okay so many terrible
experiences I'd rather have a bot than
that okay I would ra but we're all going
to try in fact everyone is try the real
number everyone's trying to get to in
the industry and you can see it on
things like the homepage of intercom is
folks are trying to automate at least
half of customer interactions that's the
goal across if you talk to folks that
are in support or post sales that's
everyone's metric we want to automate
half of us and I don't know if it's good
or bad but after after open the Gen
ain't going back in the bottle we're
going to have to live with this so
that's
happening and related to that so
support's going to go and customer
success so it's one I I if you read the
earlier s found early on I was the
biggest champion of Cs in the world now
I'm worried now that CS became part of
sales CS became weaponized CS became
weaponized cs's goal was to get blood
out of the base last year and it
destroyed the relationship and as part
of that I just don't think that there's
any great generalist role there's no
great role for hey I'm a generalist I'm
going to go into CS or support and just
make customers happy I'm worried this is
gone I'm worried the era of this
generalist making customers happy is
behind us so this is something I don't
know whether this exists and the
generalists in sales maybe maybe fading
fading behind us too just a couple of
the points I wanted to make it feels
like a downturn to many who does it feel
like we're in a downturn right now too
anybody turns out we're not we are but
but it's a localized downturn so I put
up just two things these are the top
performers in public SASS and sou stock
Lester I borrowed this from from from
Gem and ball palent are up 174% IBM this
week announced I think their best
quarter IBM I their best quarter of the
Year okay sap yeah they're doing some
layoffs but they're really a rearc sap
crushed their last quarter too okay um
Sam Sor okay that's newer but look at
this list we have so many stocks up 100%
clean hub spot which is in sales and
marketing but then interesting look at
the right is Shopify and Shop this is
shopify's gmv growth and you can see
they had the co boost the zoom like Co
boost and then had had a rough time sh
but now it's back and that's why clayo
that ipoed last year and others that are
in this draft if you talk to folks that
are in B Tob to eCommerce the good ones
had a great second half of last year
great second half of last year so it's
not my point is that doesn't exist it's
not evenly distributed budgets are up
but they've gone in weird ways and this
is just something to reckon with I never
in the old days in the old days people
would talk about what's the expression
bitamin and P I didn't believe it I
didn't believe bitam when I started as a
SAS CE two generations ago when I
started with box and Bill and all of
these companies anyone that hit 10
million crushed it okay every single one
of those companies the boxes and the
bills and the Yammer and the others they
all kept going they all kept going and
you can say hey Yammer was only SL
Slack's not a it's just a it's a snack
it's not a what is it painkiller versus
vitamin I get confused which one's the
good one vitamin is the bad one you
don't you're can live without slack you
can live without they all became huge I
believe that anyone that got to 10
million AR with high NR and happy
customers grew forever and I think
there's many examples of that but I was
also wrong like a lot of great apps the
gongs out sales offs outreaches they
should be growing 100% this year I think
Zoom info Zoom info went from 59% growth
last year to 9% in one year that's to me
that's wrong it's not supposed to work
that way okay you could see some ups and
downs but I didn't believe it but the
real loading is the downturn it's not
that it's there it's just not evenly
distributed I'm hopeful that it all
normalizes by next year but realize it's
a weird world where we're not people
haven't been hit haven't been hit
equally they really haven't and Shopify
is at 9 billion in Revenue people are
cashing in their stock options and times
are good okay it's not evenly
distributed um this is the related point
I just made I put this up on saster I
like the Gartner data not because it's
perfect They do change their mind every
quarter or two but at least they're
talking to hundreds of cios and buyers
every quarter that's pretty valuable and
they did lower their expectations for
2024 a little bit in in the one that
came out just a couple weeks ago but
still take a pause and look at it
overall software has spend last year
$913 billion overall software spend for
this year one crossing a trillion 1.02
billion 12% growth is a lot of that
going to security yes is a lot going to
AI some is a lot going to overall Cloud
infrastructure yes is a lot going to the
price increases that Salesforce and
HubSpot and everyone gave us yes that
might be absorbing most of it price
increases which we can chat about but
spend is going up and if I had to give a
tough piece of Les tough piece of advice
to folks in 2024 it's this is especially
to
Founders be honest if you fell out of
product Market fit be honest if you fill
out a product Market because what
happened in 2023 especially if you were
Venture backs everyone got a pass 2023
for your Venture back you just didn't
burn any cash there was so much stress
in the Venture ecosystem that if you
just burned no money last year you a
good Venture back startup people
literally in many cases did not care
what your growth was last year as long
as you weren't a red light company so
because of that a lot of Founders got
mixed messages they got mixed messages
and all the manages being profitable
being profitable without growing doesn't
make your Equity worth anything we know
this right it's a tough it's tough
so be honest spend is growing
there are thousands and thousands of SAS
vendors that can't all succeed be honest
did your product grow enough the last
three years be honest did you get more
competitive or less competitive
importantly if you're in a competitive
space be honest find out how fast your
competitors grew last year did you grow
faster than them or not if you had a
tough year and you grew 30% last year
but your number one competitor was flat
that's a win if you grew 30% last year
but your competitor grew 60% you're
losing market share that's because you
fell out of Market fit and I know it's
tough and a lot of Founders are going to
quit this year a lot of Founders are
going to quit this year not because
they're out of money but because they
fell out of product Market fit right I
had a company that I invested in 8
million in the bank couple million in
Revenue almost no burn they're selling
their company for pennies on the
dollar they're selling their comp why
would you sell a company with 8 million
in the bank no burn and millions of
Revenue they didn't really innovate the
last 3 years and they fell out a product
Market fit and they the energy to start
again they just have tired they've been
going for years and they don't want to
build another product they just don't
want to do it not that impressed with
them but this challenge for you guys is
don't let it be you this is hard like
even in the good times you have you fall
you're constantly slow slowly falling
out of product Market bit even in good
times and you have to rebuild yourself
every five years in good times for folks
that have been doing it for a while if
you look back on where your product was
5 years ago or 10 years ago it wasn't it
couldn't compete today it could not be I
have this fun question I don't do that
many podcast interviews but I interview
cosos and I asked them was the version
of your company 5 year was it
competitive to it's not really it's too
good today too many folks didn't
innovate the last two and a half years
too many folks didn't innovate at all
last year because I can't innovate I had
to lay off 20% of my Engineers it's not
my fault my CTO quit it's not my fault
it's not my fault Cry Me a River okay
and so as Founders we have to be
honest did you fall out a product Market
fit but the one positive thing I can
tell you I can I've worked with many of
the best Founders who found their way
back to product Market bit the key is it
really only works if you have at least a
group of happy customers if you have
some happy customers that will continue
to buy from you like it's not too late
like for public companies fastly is an
interesting example I wrote them up
fast's growing like 15% at I don't know
300 million revenue and their nrr is
15% so how many new customers you think
they added last year zero f they added
zero at couple hundred million Revenue
but they still grew 15% because they're
in Earth 15% now I'm sure it's not that
fun to work at fastly today but they got
a shot here okay they have a Next
Generation CDM they're they're pushing
lots of assets all across the internet
they've got hundreds of millions of
Revenue to work with it's up to them
whether fast wants to step it up and get
back to growth or not many of you are
like a smaller version of that I know
it's tough medicine and maybe it's not
what you want to hear but be honest no
one's going to be honest with you about
whether you fell out of product Market B
and it's almost a conversation that if
you're too honest with your team they'll
freak out it's too too much like you can
tell your team you can be like somewhere
between 80 and 90% transparent with your
team and you got to share the bad news
but not all of it the really bad news
like only your co-founders can really
take the really bad news so you can't
walk into a meeting and put your bang
your head and say look guys we fell out
a product Market fit it's hopeless we
got some companies that can work don't
get me wrong but I think outside of like
TV it doesn't really work I think people
today just especially after the last
three years they just quit may maybe 5
years ago they would be a rally cry but
today they'd be like I'm just going to
go be a consultant and sell courses and
be a fractional CMO I'm out of here
that's not as good a model as it was 12
months ago so you got maybe this isn't
the way to put it so asers you have to
be honest did we fall out of product
Market can we kick ourselves in the ass
in January and get back into product
Market fit be honest about it and it's
important as we come out of the past
that folks got last year one thing that
the thing that I talked about this bit
the thing if I would like to be positive
on S I'll tell you the thing that is
Weighing on me just a little bit
bit I'm both optimistic and pessimist is
that we're in year three of this
multiple downturn and folks are talking
about how it's like the old days right
we got back to where it was in 2017 2012
it's actually worse it's actually worse
because companies are better than ever
there's more companies at a billion AR
out there people are buying more
software than ever but the multiples are
stuck around 6X it's pretty bad actually
it's 2015 2014 bad depending how you
sles the data the optimistic side of me
says listen this is a bu opportunity in
fact I put quite a bit of money for the
first time ever into public socks cuz I
believe it I believe they are
undervalued by 20 to 30% I don't see any
reason why multiple should be lower than
pre-co it doesn't make sense to me okay
the companies are better in some cases
growth is lower but not always and it's
epic but it is year three of the
multiple downturn at some point we want
to be optimistic but we have to be
realistic right so we maybe I hope we're
not stuck in a 6X AR world I hope we're
back to 8X and 10x for good ones but but
I am getting a smidge worried that we
haven't seen this rebound and we all
thought we were Zer experts and interest
rate experts but interest rates are
coming down and companies are efficient
and just about every public company is
super efficient but multiples have not
really fully replated there's outlier so
it's just something I'm thinking about I
whenever we get back together I want to
talk about how multiples rebounded but I
thought it would already happened I'm
just so smidge worried about it this one
is from I think it's from bench sites
right is David here okay so this is a
great chart Dave's a little more Dow on
this than I am and I'm going to run out
of time but I do think this summarizes
something that Founders need to be aware
of we've gotten more efficient all
across the board by spending list every
single public company's radically more
efficient than 18 months ago they all
were unprofitable and now they're
profitable as cash flow positive or
positive margins but we didn't get
better at sales and marketing we just
leaned on our base we just relied more
on price increases and nrr and zing we
actually have gotten worse at sales and
marketing and there's a lot of stuff
that's counterintuitive here and yes as
big companies we max out accounts we run
at some point there's no customers left
in our segments so sales and marketing
cost should go but if you look at David
it's gotten worse not better as we cut
marketing expenses as we got leaner as
we got fitter as we got profitable
intuitively you would think our sales
and marketing cost must have gone down
right our IM must but no it's gone up
it's gone up we're just RI we just grew
more slowly relied on our base so this
is a challenge for 24 I'm more positive
than David but I'm gladly put together
the data we've got to figure out how to
get back to growth and spend more and be
more efficient at the same time we hid
in Cuts last year to be TR cutting
doesn't produce growth right that's what
happened and so we've got to be honest
about it and know this is hard because
public companies got worse at this last
year public companies got worse at sales
and marketing efficiency so you have an
even harder challenge you have to do
better than snowflake twio gitlab or all
is high bar but I know it's the job we
all signed up for and maybe I'll hit it
and I'll let Joo go up the last
challenge was don't be an NR zombie if I
had to tie this all up and I try to be
positive it's saster but I've got a post
coming out too many folks are going to
come out of last year being INR zombies
they're going to hide in their nrr
they're going to hide in 100% nrr and
not grow whatever happened in 2023 we
had to do it to be alive did we have to
raise our prices 20% without improving
our product yes did we rip off customers
that we shouldn't have yes put it behind
you get one Mulligan every 5 to8 years
in this ass but don't be an NR zombie
don't rely on it it's time to get back
to growth and it's supposed to be hard
thanks
everybody